At Origins Safaris we are passionate about wildlife, cultural heritage, adventure and exploration. We customize each and every safari to your personal requirements and expectations, ensuring an exclusive, unique and authentic experience every time.

Origins Safaris provide that crucial “sound advice and impeccable service” so seldom found by other companies. We have 50+ years of authentic African safari experience and the know-how to make your trip run as smoothly as possible.  Use our website to find the trips that inspire you and add them to your bucket list. As you use the arrows to browse through the various countries we do safaris to, bear in mind that the further you go into the website the more adventurous, specialized and remote the trips become. We are offering you a lifetime of travel, beginning with the easiest and ending with the hardest as you find your Africa feet and wish to do more exciting trips. Once you have browsed our website, send us your bucket list and we will link you directly to some relevant and extensive sources of information and pertinent itinerary advice. From there, we can then start your specific itinerary design

“Jambo na Karibuni” (“Hello & Welcome”). This friendly Swahili greeting will be your introduction to all the new friends and acquaintances you make on safari in Kenya. As you plan for the safari ahead we suggest you run through the information that follows so that you get the most out of your exclusive safari. Kenya is rightfully described as “All of Africa in One Country”, and it is exactly that. It is a fact that Kenya enjoys some of the world’s greatest environmental diversity resulting in unparalleled species and sub-species varieties.

Kenya is simply the best wildlife viewing destination in Africa. People from all over the world are drawn here by its essence: the chance to immerse yourself in the spectacle of the big game: the predators and the prey ritually entwined in a cycle of life and death. Kenya straddles the Equator with geography ranging from snow capped Mt. Kenya, the second highest mountain in Africa, to lush tropical rainforest and golden sands at sea level. Kenya is a land of contrasts and extremes: a country with an extraordinary variety of landscapes and locations, all of them striking in their own particular way. It has earned the epithet ‘the cradle of mankind’ for the discovery of archaeological evidence of the earliest origins of mankind. Kenya not only boasts every known landform but also a wealth of animal and bird life which owes its very existence to the contrasts in the country’s terrain. You do not have to be an ornithologist to enjoy its one thousand species of birds or a zoologist to be amazed by its variety of animals – birds range from the beautiful to the bizarre and the wildlife from the weird to the wonderful…

We are among the last generations to have the opportunity to experience the vanishing cultures of East Africa. Kenya is the tribal home to 40 different ethnic groups, many still living exactly as their ancestors did thousands of years ago. You can immerse yourself in the ways and culture of some of Africa’s proudest and most striking tribes.

Kenya has 480 kilometres of Indian Ocean coastline and a coral fringe reef, which is home to a colourful plethora of marine life. You can explore its balmy waters by dhow, yacht or powerboat; dive, snorkel and swim in the clear azure waters over fabulous coral beds; hunt for Marlin, Tuna and Sailfish or explore the mangrove swamps and creeks where the cycle begins. The coast is home to a striking mix of people and cultures with beautiful ancient architecture contrasting with the modern da bustle of the 21st century.

Guides add a tremendous amount to your safari holiday.

The guides at Origins have a high reputation for being experts in their field and being able to communicate this knowledge to those they travel with. They give learned information on a variety of different subjects, from flora and fauna to wildlife, bird life and cultural heritage. Our guides are all active members of appropriate associations such as RWASAGA (Rwanda Safari Guide Association), KPSGA (Kenya Professional Guides Association), TTGA (Tanzania Tour Guide Association), and others.

Tour guides are responsible for your safety and carry emergency equipment, first aid kits, radios to communicate with the head office / camps and where appropriate either mobile or satellite phones. They will have detailed knowledge of the areas and will not only make what you see so much more understandable but are very interesting, enthusiastic, multi-talented, fascinating and jovial raconteurs., Our team includes individuals such as, Lale Biwa, Kivuyo Emmanuel, Gilles Gisimba, Davis Jonas, Afrika Julius, Alex Kagaba, Stanley Kariithi, Destaw Kibathie, Peter Liech, Eric Manirakiza, Felix Mdee, John Munhambo, Johnson Mbanzamihigo, Bernardin Munyankindi, Sam Nayabare, Sula Ndizeye, Theo Rutembesa, Edwin Selempo, Aimable Sabushi, Hassan Saleh, Hussein Safari, Patrick Tembe, Daniel Tesfaye and Richard Turner.